noveltysoldering.md, before:

---
layout: default
---

# Novelty Soldering
Pushing the limits of creative bodgery, one RoHS-compliant joint at a time. Some of these examples are part of larger projects, while others serve no purpose beyond entertainment.

## Hand-Carved FR4
I don't have a PCB mill, so I tend to hand-carve FR4 when I need to throw together a quick-but-durable prototype. The method takes practice but can produce excellent results. I gave a talk about this at Sketching in Hardware 2017; it wasn't recorded but you can see the slides [here](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/hyhu9ugzqjm3rpa/AADzmDjt3YaXpK__I8fdOgkTa?dl=0&preview=zach+fredin+-+ZF_sketching.pdf).

### phonetroller I (2017)

![phonetrollerI_1](/assets/img/phonetrollerI_1.jpg)

The first prototype of the Phonetroller project; see [electronics](/electronics.md) for the newer (but still bodgy) version. This build made extensive use of FR4 as both a structural and an electronic material, and was sized to fit my phone while in its case. Based on a Teensy 3.2 in USB HID mode. Buttons were uncomfortable to use and the joystick was garbage, but it worked.

![phonetrollerI_2](/assets/img/phonetrollerI_2.jpg)

### auto dice (2016)

![auto dice](/assets/img/autodice.gif "auto dice")

Uses fourteen 0402 LEDs, an ATtiny44A, and a few coin cells to emulate a pair of dice. I sprayed the circuit with polyurethane and it has survived a few years bouncing around in my bag.

![auto dice 2](/assets/img/autodice2.jpg "auto dice")

[more documentation](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/42852-auto-dice)

### simon suggests (2016)

![simon suggests](/assets/img/simon.jpg)

Suspiciously similar in function and coloration to the popular 1978 electronic game Simon. Built as a holiday present, and as an excuse to play around with SMT piezo buzzers and 12mm buttons. Video with sound [here](https://youtu.be/lXgxr6eGAZU), more documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/50668-simon-uh-suggests).

## Badge Bodgery
Electronic conference badges are now A THING. I like to hack them into weird delicate blinky sculptures.

### supercon monster matrix (2016)
![hackaday 2016 badge](/assets/img/hackaday2016badge.jpg)

The 2016 Hackaday Supercon badge had an 8x16 red LED matrix. I felt it was too small, so I used a few chunks of FR4 and a bunch of magnet wire to embiggen it. Won Best Dead Bug in the badge hacking contest. More documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/48843-badgery-bodgery), article [here](https://hackaday.com/2016/11/21/showing-off-the-badge-hacks-from-supercon/).

### tindie binary counter eyes (2017)
![tindie badge 1](/assets/img/tindiebadge1.gif)

The Tindie Badge is a simple learn-to-solder project, where the user solders a pair of insertion mount T1-3/4 color-changing LEDs to the front and a battery/switch to the back. I swapped the LEDs for a pair of 5-element midair loops:

![tindie badge 3](/assets/img/tindiebadge3.jpg)

... and added a QFN ATTiny84A to the back, along with a few support components:

![tindie badge 2](/assets/img/tindiebadge2.jpg)

[more documentation](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/71347-tindie-badge-bodge)

### Jolly Wrencher + Teensy (2018)

Like the Tindie badge, the Jolly Wrencher originally was a learn-to-solder project with a few blinky LED eyes. I added all the parts of a Teensy 3.2 (ARM Cortex M4 microcontroller, bootloader, bypassing, oscillator, etc), along with a MEMS microphone, analog amplifier, power supply, and ten LEDs. The badge used the ARM CMSIS DSP FFT capabilities to display a real-time audio spectrum from the microphone (LEDs in test mode below).

![jolly wrencher](/assets/img/jollywrencher1.jpg)

That is, until something broke. Some things are too delicate to survive. More documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/154333-jolly-wrencher-diy-teensy-bodgery).

### Dead-Bug Linux computer (2018)

Based on the Octavo OSD335x SiP running BeagleBone firmware. The chip enumerated over USB but I never got it to boot, but to be fair it was a busy weekend and SD cards can be fussy.

![octavo](/assets/img/octavo.jpg)

Commit message:

more new content, added resume

noveltysoldering.md, after:

---
layout: default
---

# Novelty Soldering
Pushing the limits of creative bodgery, one RoHS-compliant joint at a time. Some of these examples are part of larger projects, while others serve no purpose beyond entertainment.

## Hand-Carved FR4
I don't have a PCB mill, so I tend to hand-carve FR4 when I need to throw together a quick-but-durable prototype. The method takes practice but can produce excellent results. I gave a talk about this at Sketching in Hardware 2017; it wasn't recorded but you can see the slides [here](https://www.dropbox.com/sh/hyhu9ugzqjm3rpa/AADzmDjt3YaXpK__I8fdOgkTa?dl=0&preview=zach+fredin+-+ZF_sketching.pdf).

### phonetroller I (2017)

![phonetrollerI_1](/assets/img/phonetrollerI_1.jpg)

The first prototype of the Phonetroller project; see [electronics](/electronics.md) for the newer (but still bodgy) version. This build made extensive use of FR4 as both a structural and an electronic material, and was sized to fit my phone while in its case. Based on a Teensy 3.2 in USB HID mode. Buttons were uncomfortable to use and the joystick was garbage, but it worked.

![phonetrollerI_2](/assets/img/phonetrollerI_2.jpg)

### auto dice (2016)

![auto dice](/assets/img/autodice.gif "auto dice")

Uses fourteen 0402 LEDs, an ATtiny44A, and a few coin cells to emulate a pair of dice. I sprayed the circuit with polyurethane and it has survived a few years bouncing around in my bag.

![auto dice 2](/assets/img/autodice2.jpg "auto dice")

[more documentation](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/42852-auto-dice)

### simon suggests (2016)

![simon suggests](/assets/img/simon.jpg)

Suspiciously similar in function and coloration to the popular 1978 electronic game Simon. Built as a holiday present, and as an excuse to play around with SMT piezo buzzers and 12mm buttons. Video with sound [here](https://youtu.be/lXgxr6eGAZU), more documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/50668-simon-uh-suggests).

## Badge Bodgery
Electronic conference badges are now **a thing**. I like to hack them into weird delicate blinky sculptures.

### supercon monster matrix (2016)
![hackaday 2016 badge](/assets/img/hackaday2016badge.jpg)

The 2016 Hackaday Supercon badge had an 8x16 red LED matrix. I felt it was too small, so I used a few chunks of FR4 and a bunch of magnet wire to embiggen it. Won Best Dead Bug in the badge hacking contest. More documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/48843-badgery-bodgery), article [here](https://hackaday.com/2016/11/21/showing-off-the-badge-hacks-from-supercon/).

### tindie binary counter eyes (2017)
![tindie badge 1](/assets/img/tindiebadge1.gif)

The Tindie Badge is a simple learn-to-solder project, where the user solders a pair of insertion mount T1-3/4 color-changing LEDs to the front and a battery/switch to the back. I swapped the LEDs for a pair of 5-element midair loops:

![tindie badge 3](/assets/img/tindiebadge3.jpg)

... and added a QFN ATTiny84A to the back, along with a few support components:

![tindie badge 2](/assets/img/tindiebadge2.jpg)

[more documentation](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/71347-tindie-badge-bodge)

### Jolly Wrencher + Teensy (2018)

Like the Tindie badge, the Jolly Wrencher originally was a learn-to-solder project with a few blinky LED eyes. I added all the parts of a Teensy 3.2 (ARM Cortex M4 microcontroller, bootloader, bypassing, oscillator, etc), along with a MEMS microphone, analog amplifier, power supply, and ten LEDs. The badge used the ARM CMSIS DSP FFT capabilities to display a real-time audio spectrum from the microphone (LEDs in test mode below).

![jolly wrencher](/assets/img/jollywrencher1.jpg)

That is, until something broke. Some things are too delicate to survive. More documentation [here](https://hackaday.io/project/8160-weekend-novelty-projects/log/154333-jolly-wrencher-diy-teensy-bodgery).

### Dead-Bug Linux computer (2018)

Based on the Octavo OSD335x SiP running BeagleBone firmware. The chip enumerated over USB but I never got it to boot, but to be fair it was a busy weekend and SD cards can be fussy.

![octavo](/assets/img/octavo.jpg)

## Free Air Sculptures
Sometimes you just don't have time for a fussy substrate. This work differs from most free-air work in that it concentrates on being tiny at the expense of rigidity and durability. 

### blinktronicator (2016)
A free-air version of the [blinktronicator](/electronics.md). Still works, still my favorite creation to date.

![blinktronicator](/assets/img/blinktronicator3.jpg)

[more documentation](https://hackaday.io/project/8331-blinktronicator/log/41277-free-air-blinktronicator)
